---
title: "Speaker bios"
date: 2016-09-17
draft: false
featured_image: "/images/bsides_logo_blue.jpg"
featured_image_desc: "BSides Zurich logo"
---

### Antonio Sanso ([@asanso](https://twitter.com/asanso))

Antonio works as Senior Software Engineer at Adobe Research Switzerland where he
is part of the Adobe Experience Manager security team. He is an avid open source
contributor, being the Vice President (chair) for Apache Oltu and PMC member for
Apache Sling. Antonio is co-author of “OAuth 2 in Action” book. He found
vulnerabilities in popular software as OpenSSL, Google Chrome, Apple Safari and
is included in the Google, Facebook, Microsoft and Github security hall of fame.

### Candid Wüest ([@mylaocoon](https://twitter.com/mylaocoon))

Candid Wüest works for Symantec’s global security response team, where he has
been going far beyond anti-virus signatures during the last thirteen years. He
analyses new security threats, formulates mitigation strategies and creates
research reports on new emerging security trends – for example, threats to the
Internet of Things. For three years, he worked as a Virus Analyst in the
anti-malware laboratory of Symantec in Dublin, Ireland. Wüest has published
various whitepapers and has been featured as a security expert in top- tier
media outlets including Forbes, BBC and many others. He is also a frequent
speaker at security-related conferences including RSA, BlackHat and Area41. He
learned coding and the English language on a Commodore 64. He holds a master of
computer science from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) and
various certi cations.

### Joao Collier de Mendonca ([@sec_joao](https://twitter.com/sec_joao))

João is a senior Incident Responder at the Cyber Defense Center of Deutsche
Telekom Group, where he investigates security breaches for companies of various
sizes. His work is focused on network-based incident detection and on the setup
and improvement of Incident Detection and Response Capabilities across the
Deutsche Telekom Group.

### Tom Ueltschi ([@c_APT_ure](https://twitter.com/c_APT_ure))

Tom Ueltschi has been working 9 years as security analyst at Swiss Post (CERT /
CSIRT / SOC). He has given several presentations about Ponmocup Malware & Botnet
(SANS DFIR, DeepSec, 2x BotConf) between 2013 and 2015. He is collaborating and
sharing in many closed trust groups and communities about cyber security,
malware and threat intel.

### Sven Vetsch ([@disenchant](https://twitter.com/disenchant))

With his practical experience of more than ten years in information security and
in a variety of IT disciplines Sven Vetsch leads the technical security team at
Redguard. Together they perform technical audits and training courses and
conduct consulting mandates. He leads the local chapter of OWASP in Switzerland
and is a co-founder of DEFCON Switzerland.

### Yves Kraft ([@nrx_ch](https://twitter.com/nrx_ch)), Immanuel Willi

Yves and Immanuel are both penetration testers at Oneconsult AG. Their daily
business is to build and deconstruct things. Yves works as a security consultant
at Oneconsult, focusing on penetration tests, security consulting and training.
He was promoted to team leader and branch manager Bern a year ago. As a former
system and network engineer he managed several servers, applications and
networks including systems at a large Swiss university, financial services and
public administration among other industries. Immanuel worked several years as a
system administrator at a university. When moving to another higher education
institution he was appointed head of the internal IT services department. His
work at Oneconsult is focused on penetration tests and security consulting.
